---
layout: post
title:  "weekly work log"
date:   2024-03-18 5:55:39 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---

- [ ] Andrej Karpathy's video series.
- [ ] Rewrite all the code blocks on my own eg: Softmax, Crossentropy, Attention, Transformer, and Convolutions.
- [ ] The lil book of deep learning.
- [ ] Train a GPT on Shakespeare data
- [ ] Read 6 seminal papers
  - [x] Attention is all you need
  - [ ] Stable-diffusion
  - [ ] LayerNorm/BatchNorm/Rewrite on my own
  - [ ] LeCun's seminal CNN paper
  - [ ] Alec Radford's GPT paper
- [ ] 150 LC (90/150)
- [ ] Designing Data Intensive applications. (DDIA)
- [ ] System Design Interview: An insider's guide. (SDI)

## 2024-03-18

1. implemented cross-entropy, and attention mechanism and read Attention is all you need
2. LC # and #
3. Design Youtube Chapter(SDI), and DDIA Chapter 1.

## 2024-03-19

1. 2 LC problems
2. GPT Tokenizer
3. DDIA Chapter 2

## 2024-03-20

1. 2 LC (1hr)
2. DDIA Chapter 3 (1hr)
3. Write a Transformer from scratch and run Shakespeare it(3hr)

## 2024-03-21

1. 5 LC
2. Blues guitar (A scale)
3. Write a Transformer from scratch and run Shakespeare it(3hr) (from yesterday.)
4. SDI (1 chapter)

## 2024-03-22
Ok I have missed few things from past days so today's focus is to clear the backlog.
I will write what I did today later tonight.

## 2024-03-23
Whole day went in to search an apartment, meeting friends and birthday party.

## 2024-03-24
Managed to do couple of LC. :(

## 2024-03-25
wow! backlog hasn't moved a bit. 72/150 LC so still I gotta to do around 78 problems and revision of some of the complicated or trying new ones. Can I increase my speed a lil bit every day? why don't I feel the rush to take care of these things and not worry about them agai$$n? It'd be easy right if they are done and changed my job will free up mental space for many activities like more dancing or play music?

## 2024-03-26

LC coded mostly binary search problems (it's hard)

## 2024-03-27

missed last two days, bit worried about health. Taking measures to course correct it, had a good night sleep today and really excited for new move-in. LC/Move-in/repeat-good-night-sleep.
plan move in tomorrow?? let me call them and see.. schedule at 4 and Go to wedding on Friday? I need to buy new shirts at least?


## 2024-04-03

Ok things are not going as planned or hoped!!!
haven't taken care of the list mentioned above and moved to a new apartment and going to start focusing on coding from tonight/tomorrow and hopefully fix the allergies(lord, have mercy on me!!).
Listening to a lot of George Hotz streams, and Naval/David Deutsch and wanna learn some hard stuff enough of being stupid and not have more mental models like mentioned in Charlie's Almanack.

I failed as a developer!
How do I fix it? what can I do it next 6 months to bring this on track?

## 2024-04-04
woke up: 9am, went out for a walk.
work: 10am, just checking the chats and reorienting my head to work on it after some Caffeine
meetings: 10:30 -> 12pm.

## 2024-04-05

in next two weeks: finish 150 problems, 2 system design books, and revise.

## 2024-04-08

1. 5 LC (90/150)
2. Saw an epic eclipse
3. played guitar for an hour
4. Reading structure and interpretation of computer programs.

I feel like I'm still super slow and can observe energy drop in the evening.


## 2024-04-15
1. LC (104/150) will solve 7 problems today! one of the goals for this week is to finish 150 problems and start revising.
2. SDI and also reading programming pearls.
3. W.T

J.H posted a document on python network programming, gotta check it out, bookmarked on X.

## Ideas

1. Use GPT as a backend to be a financial advisor and help with saving more, can be a plugin and mostly useful for me.



## Yet to read
1. [Why GPTS are bad at math](https://www.beren.io/2023-02-04-Integer-tokenization-is-insane/)
2. [solidgoldmagikarp](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/aPeJE8bSo6rAFoLqg/solidgoldmagikarp-plus-prompt-generation)
3. [Guzey on Morale](https://guzey.com/morale/)
4. [consulting inspiration](https://www.speedshop.co)
5. [nateberkopec](https://twitter.com/nateberkopec) Go through tweets and find important pointers to focus on. (is it important to be a ruby on rails dev?)


## Technical papers
1. [Language Models are Few-Shot Learners](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.14165)



## Things I want to do but don't have time yet

1. I would like to set up DJ/Production env and work on creating my own music like release an album, it doesn't have to be amazing just fun/something complete.
2. I wanna compete at a Tango dance world championships? there's not many people working on it especially in BA.
3. Do the StartingStrength Seminar and Ido Portal workshops as well.
4. Brazil live in friend I made in Peru's town, close to amazon and also learn Capoeira from the local masters.


## weekend projects:

[Clojure](https://www.braveclojure.com/writing-macros/]) ideally instead of reading that book alone, I wanna build some kinda application! if not application may be like to-do list web app?

  1. server
  2. routes, accepting http requests, able to send response in json/html
  3. can I not use frameworks?
  4. storage db calls
  5. authentication?
  6. writing test cases?
  7. can I also GPT backend give some useful stuff to take care of something, may be even user writes a todo item and specify details GPT can find how long would it take to finish and useful ideas to finish this
